Hey and welcome back.
We're going to jump right into the do's and don'ts of user flows.
So user flows show the purpose of what you're trying to create.
And really, we shouldn't be vague at all.
So this title tells me absolutely nothing.
Vague user flows and names really hide the potential complexity and doesn't communicate enough information
back to the viewer.
Remember, we have to be a little bit more detailed when we think about these.
I do not know what is happening here.
All I know is that there is some sort of vague flow and it's going in different directions.
Maybe this could be broken out.
I don't know what profile means.
Maybe the user is trying to get to their profile.
Maybe the user is on their profile or maybe the user is signing up.
I'm not sure.
What you should do is use descriptive names.
Maybe it's add user payment details, organize them maybe into separate flows.
Is the user trying to get to their profile to edit their profile picture?
That's a separate flow.
And by naming your flows, you're really able to design from the user's perspective, and you can split
goals based off of what they're trying to do.
So remember, you can create separate flows.
Don't be afraid to make as many as you want.
It really helps us break down all the different requirements we need and all the different scenarios
that may pop up.
Your flow should always go in one direction.
I mean, there's really no excuse to do something like this.
I mentioned it before about sprawling like flowcharts or site maps, but these are confusing and they
don't really do a good job of actually indicating some sort of user flow.
They may tell me all the different possibilities that the user may encounter while their inner product
or website or whatever we're building.
But to take a look at that, that's incredibly overwhelming.
So these work as a good site map or to show the way the navigation works in your product.
But don't use it for our user flow.
What we should do is the following.
Split them up into distinct flows and categorize them.
So if we zoom out just a bit, we had like three different flows broken into here, broken it into one
or put together as one.
And over here what we've done is even though there's like a decision tree in one of our flows, we've
actually just broken them out separately.
We'll name them, we'll write descriptions for each task and they'll have an end goal.
So remember, keep it simple, break it out.
It's okay to be a little redundant, but it's going to help you in the end.
And the last don't.
Your flow should represent a complete task.
Don't do this.
You're missing a bunch of details here.
There's a bunch of useless information like click button at bottom.
I'm not sure what button means.
Fill out fields.
Like what fields?
And I mean, there's just nothing left at the end.
We should have some sort of description of what that end goal is.
We need to know the details the user needs to take to complete a task and the actions.
This is what you should probably be doing.
Add the right amount of detail outlining each step and goal.
This way anyone can read and understand your flow.
So I know that this flow is purchasing a product instantly and that can mean a lot of things, but we
can break that up into several flows.
So I can review a product detail.
I can review a product's details and use the Buy Now button, and that pushes me into the next step.
I am reviewing shipping and payment information and we can even add to this review shipping and payment
information.
Confirm.
Details and make purchase.
Let's just open this frame up just a little bit more.
Great.
And the last step is the purchase has been confirmed.
You get an order confirmation and you receive some sort of success message.
So remember, add the right amount of detail and outline each step and goal.
That way anyone could read it and understand it.
We don't want people looking at those confusing site maps with not enough information outlining each
step or each scenario.
And we don't want people to be confused.
So follow these do's and don'ts and you'll be ready to create your very own user flows.